[Music]
okay ready let's play a game you need to
guess which country has the highest
density of vending machines in the world
tough well here's another hint for you
it's also the country which consists of
a staggering 6852 Islands right you are
it's Japan and what are the most amazing
things about this country is its railway
see for yourself
forty-five of the 50th busy railway
stations on this planet are in Japan and
Japanese trains are literally one of the
world's marvels let's have a look at the
most popular ones
sunrise Express is an overnight sleeping
train and before I start telling you all
about its secrets I have to warn you
after you learn about this amazing kind
of Transportation
you may feel an overwhelming desire to
travel to Japan and take a trip on this
train sunrise Express consists of two
trains sunrise Izumo and sunrise Seto
they're combined on their way from Tokyo
to okiyama then split up and traveled to
two different places
sunrise Seto goes to Takamatsu and
sunrise Izumo heads for Izumo she as you
may guess on the way back the two trains
get coupled in Okayama again and
returned to Tokyo as a whole unlike most
modern trains sunrise Express has not
one or two but six types of
accommodations and if you prefer to
travel with the highest standards of
comfort no matter the cost
first-class is for you by choosing a
single deluxe compartment also called a
class you'll get a cozy room for one
passenger you'll have everything you
need there a table with a chair access
to radio controls lockable doors and a
personal sink situated next to your bed
also you won't have to worry about
bringing along a change of clothes
because you'll be provided with slippers
a bathrobe and a set of toiletries right
onboard oh and some more good news
whenever you feel the need to freshen
yourself up you can visit a shower
without any problems this service is
free for deluxe compartment passengers
as you can see these compartments make
you feel as if you're staying in a nice
although not very spacious hotel room
which is also conveniently moving
towards your destination point besides
you can admire the breathtaking local
landscapes through your compartments
wide window and what a great bonus it is
but let's say you don't want to spend a
fortune on your privacy or you're going
to travel with a companion in this case
you can opt for Class B which offers
passengers different kinds of
accommodations such as sunrise twin
single twin single and solo you can
choose the one to your liking depending
on whether you travel alone or with a
partner by the way
Class B doesn't mean that it's
significantly worse than first-class you
can close the door of your compartment
just as you do in Class A and enjoy a
wonderful atmosphere of isolation on the
other hand you don't get any slippers
that's not all sunrise Express has to
offer
there's also noir and obby and even the
name sounds intriguing doesn't it that's
the last type of the trains
accommodation and this probably looks
like nothing you've seen before imagine
this you enter Nora Navi and are greeted
by a single two-level space that has a
flat and rigid surface small wooden
walls separate sleeping places and each
of the latter has a window so you won't
have any problems with enjoying the
views outside the seats or shall I say
beds are comfortable and long enough to
have a good rest
all in all Nora nabhi is the perfect way
to feel like a local make new friends
and understand Japanese culture and
lifestyle a bit better on the whole
sunrise Express has everything you may
need to have a comfortable trip there
are enough toilets that take an
early-morning bathroo trip without
getting stuck in a restroom lie on top
of that on board the train you'll find
vending machines with drinks lounges and
smoking Cabot's and one car has a
special compartment that is wheelchair
accessible but there's one important
thing you should remember unless you're
traveling in first-class single deluxe
compartment if you want to take a shower
you need to buy a special car
well why not it sounds reasonable right
maybe if you don't consider the fact
that water in the shower flows for only
six minutes and you can see the
countdown on a special timer inside the
shower Cabbot oh my doesn't it sound
like a challenge to rinse off all the
shower gel and shampoo before your time
runs out
but whether you finish on time or walk
out of the shower still slippery from
the Unwin soap you'll still need to
press the auto clean button so that the
shower cleans itself which type of
accommodations would you pick if you
travel by Sunrise Express sound off in a
comment section below
well sunrise Express is something else
but how about the train that almost tops
the list of the world's fastest trains
that's right I'm talking about
Shinkansen even the most experienced
travelers will find some facts about
this train jaw-dropping the engineer who
invented Shinkansen had a Oshima plan to
design a train that would look and feel
like an airplane and he obviously
succeeded interestingly after finishing
his railway career the man was promoted
to the head of the national space
development agency of Japan Shinkansen
has another name the bullet train and no
wonder the trains operating speed can
reach 200 miles per hour
but according to test runs in 2003
Shinkansen can increase its speed up to
300 61 miles per hour when you think
about such breakneck speed it's
impossible not to wonder about rail
accidents but the Shinkansen safety
record is nothing but impressive the
train has been running for almost 55
years and has already carried more than
10 billion passengers but even despite
frequent typhoons and earthquakes there
haven't been any fatalities among
passengers even more in 2012 when they
estimated the average shinken cents
delay from the schedule it turned out to
be only 36 seconds and these delays came
from all kinds of uncontrollable causes
like natural disasters one very curious
thing about this high-speed train is
Shinkansen theater no that's not about
actors performing in plays on board the
train this is the name of one of the
most unusual cleanup teams in the world
just imagine these people can clean the
whole train within seven minutes they
probably use some kind of magic because
the trains are always spotlessly clean
and unlike the rules apply to other
Japanese trains you can eat and drink
onboard the Shinkansen at most railway
stations there are stores that sell
bento boxes also known as lunch boxes so
that you can buy one and eat during the
trip this Shinkansen train sounds like
some kind of sci-fi transportation but
even without mentioning this high-speed
train Japanese railway is an amazing
thing on its own
here are some exciting facts about it
all Japanese high-speed trains have an
automatic emergency brake system that
comes into action in case of an
earthquake picture this at the first
signs of an earthquake the central
control system which connects all the
trains all over the country freezes
every single one in its tracks in Japan
there's a profession that probably
doesn't exist anywhere else in the world
that's the pusher now this person
doesn't push the train to help it speed
up pushers also called
attendants help passengers get into
crowded rail cars
wow what a job the world's busiest train
station is Shinjuku which has more than
3.6 million visitors not a month or a
week a day this place is a baffling maze
of underground tunnels where even the
most seasoned locals regularly get lost
in 2016 the East Japan Railway designed
a new single purpose app that can help
passengers get around Shinjuku Station
the longest train that runs upside down
is also in Japan to see this wonder you
have to travel an hour outside of Tokyo
where you'll find yourself in a beachy
prefecture called Chiba the Chiba
monorail system has a weird retro
futuristic look the train itself hangs
from the rails and travels along the 9.4
mile-long track it makes the Chiba
monorail the longest suspended rail
system on the planet Japanese people are
really really fond of their trains do
you want proof how about this there is
so much train fandom in the country that
train lovers separate into numerous
group
from those whose hobby is to walk around
train stations to those who can't live
without train lunch boxes in 2017 a
Japanese train company apologized to
passengers when his train left the
station 20 seconds ahead of schedule
this story went viral all over the
internet in Japan the Tsukuba Express
which connects Tokyo and Tsukuba
departed at 9:40 4:20 instead of 9 4440
as it was supposed to it turned out that
the crew didn't check the departure time
properly well shame on them so which
fact about Japanese railroad did you
like the most
write about your ideas in the comments
below remember to give this video a like
share it with your friends and hit that
subscribe button this is the fastest way
to get to the bright side of life
[Music]
you